Extensions content - Master PR (#2411)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/extensions/pgcrypto.md

---
title: pgcrypto PostgreSQL extension
excerpt: Use the pgcrypto extension with your Timescale service
products: [cloud]
keywords: [services, settings, extensions, pgcrypto]
tags: [extensions, pgcrypto]
---

# The `pgcrypto` extension

> pgcrypto is a PostgreSQL extension that provides cryptographic functions such as:

Author: ```suggestion
The `pgcrypto` PostgreSQL extension provides cryptographic functions such as:
```

> *   General Hashing

Author: ```suggestion
*   General hashing
```

> *   Password Hashing

Author: ```suggestion
*   Password hashing
```

> *   PGP Encryption

Author: ```suggestion
*   PGP encryption
```

> *   Raw Encryption

Author: ```suggestion
*   Raw encryption
```

> *   Random-Data

Author: ```suggestion
*   Random-data
```

Not sure about the hyphen?

For more information about these fuctions and the options available, see the

> [pgcryto documentation][pgcryto-docs].

Author: ```suggestion
[pgcrypto documentation][pgcrypto-docs].
```

> [pgcryto documentation] [pgcryto-docs].

Author: ```suggestion
[pgcryto documentation][pgcryto-docs].
```

> ## Use `pgcrypto` extension with Timescale

Author: ```suggestion
## Use the `pgcrypto` extension to encrypt inserted data
```

> `pgcrypto` is a PostgreSQL extension that enables you to encrypt, decrypt, hash,

Author: ```suggestion
The `pgcrypto` extension allows you to encrypt, decrypt, hash,
```

and create digital signatures within your database. Timescale understands how
precious your data is and safeguards sensitive information.

<Procedure>

> ### Using `pgcrypto` extension to encrypt the data you insert in Timescale

Author: ```suggestion
### Using the `pgcrypto` extension to encrypt inserted data
```

> 1.  Install the `pgcryto` extension:

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Install the `pgcrypto` extension:
```

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgcrypto;
    ```

1.  You can confirm if the extension is installed using the `\dx` command.

>     The extensions that are instlled is listed:

Author: ```suggestion
    The installed extensions are listed:
```

    ```sql
        List of installed extensions
            Name         | Version |   Schema   |                                      Description                                      
    ---------------------+---------+------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     pg_stat_statements  | 1.10    | public     | track planning and execution statistics of all SQL statements executed
     pgcrypto            | 1.3     | public     | cryptographic functions
     plpgsql             | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
     timescaledb         | 2.11.0  | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data (Community Edition)
     timescaledb_toolkit | 1.16.0  | public     | Library of analytical hyperfunctions, time-series pipelining, and other SQL utilities
     ```

1.  Create a table named `user_passwords`:

    ```sql

>        CREATE TABLE user_passwords (username varchar(100) PRIMARY KEY, crypttext text);

Author: ```suggestion
    CREATE TABLE user_passwords (username varchar(100) PRIMARY KEY, crypttext text);
```

    ```

1.  Insert the values in the `user_passwords` table and replace `<Password_Key>`
    with a password key of your choice:

    ```sql
       INSERT INTO tbl_sym_crypt (username, crypttext)
        VALUES ('user1', pgp_sym_encrypt('user1_password','<Password_Key>')),
           ('user2', pgp_sym_encrypt('user2_password','<Password_Key>'));
    ```

1.  You can confirm that the password is encrypted using the command:

    ```sql

>      SELECT * FROM user_passwords;
>      ```

Author: ```suggestion
    SELECT * FROM user_passwords;
    ```
```

    The encrypted passwords are listed:

    ```sql
           username |                                                                              crypttext                                                                               
    ----------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     user1      | \xc30d040703025caa37f9d1c731d169d240018529d6f0002b2948905a87e4787efaa0046e58fd3f04ee95594bea1803807063321f62c9651cbf0422b04508093df9644a76684b504b317cf633552fcf164f
     user2   | \xc30d0407030279bbcf760b81d3de73d23c01c04142632fc8527c0c1b17cc954c77f16df46022acddc565fd18f0f0f761ddb2f31b21c4ebe47a48039d685287d64506029e027cf29b5493b574df
    (2 rows)
    ```

> 1.  To view the decrypted passwords for the users replace `<Password_Key>` with

Author: ```suggestion
1.  To view the decrypted passwords, replace `<Password_Key>` with
```

Perhaps this step is optional?

    the password key that you created:

    ```sql

>         SELECT username, pgp_sym_decrypt(crypttext::bytea, '<Password_Key>')
>         FROM user_passwords;

Author: ```suggestion
     SELECT username, pgp_sym_decrypt(crypttext::bytea, '<Password_Key>')
     FROM user_passwords;
```

    ```

    The decrypted passwords are listed:

    ```sql

>         username | pgp_sym_decrypt 
>         ----------+-----------------
>          user1   | user1_password
>          user2   | user2_password
>         (2 rows)

Author: ```suggestion
     username | pgp_sym_decrypt 
     ----------+-----------------
      user1   | user1_password
      user2   | user2_password
     (2 rows)
```

Author: I probably didn't get that quite right, it'll be easier in your text editor 😅
